1/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesChia Der Jiun: Remarks on the MAS Annual Report 2024/2025
Opening address by Mr Chia Der Jiun, Managing Director of the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore, at the MAS Annual Report 2024/2025 Media Conference, Singapore, 15 
July 2025.
* * *
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today for the release of the MAS Annual 
Report for Financial Year 2024/2025.
I will be sharing on key areas across central banking, financial sector development and 
regulation, as well as key highlights of our financial performance. 
Recent Economic Developments
Let me begin by touching on recent economic developments and monetary policy. 
The global economy was on an even keel at the turn of the year, with inflation 
moderating and growth near potential. In our region, inflation was well-anchored in key 
ASEAN economies, well within the respective central bank targets. 
The tariff announcements in April this year have induced complex dynamics to global 
inflation and growth.
a.On the demand side, the direct effects of tariffs on trade, and the uncertainty of  
tariff policy will have a restrictive impact on global demand and will likely be dis-
inflationary outside the US. 
b.On the supply side, tariffs and escalatory countermeasures, to the extent that  
they materialise, have the potential to cause supply chain inefficiencies, bottlenecks 
and disruptions, and pose an inflationary risk over time.
At this juncture, the impact of tariffs and uncertainty have yet to assert in a major 
way. Tariff deadlines have been rolled back, while businesses have front-loaded orders 
ahead of threatened tariff increases.  For now, economic activity and output have been 
resilient, but front-loading will not continue indefinitely and will have to be paid back. 
Consumption and investment will likely soften in the months ahead. Consistent with 
this, forward looking survey-based indicators of consumer and business confidence are 
slipping. 
Considerable uncertainty remains, and the outlook ahead is subject to a wider 
than usual range of outcomes.  There is a range of possibilities around the extent and 
scope of tariffs, whether trade agreements are concluded and prove to be durable, and 
whether escalating trade conflicts recur. 
We take a cautious view of the outlook, and our base case is that global 
economic activity will slow in H2 2025, with inflation dampened for the year. 2/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesI will turn now to the Singapore economy.   Singapore's GDP growth has held up 
better than expected in H1, but is likely to slow in H2 2025, in line with our 
Let me expectation for slowing global economic activity and external demand.  
elaborate.
a.Singapore's aggregate economic activity held up well in H1, with inflation at a  
subdued level. 
b.Notably, the (released yesterday) show that GDP growth of    Advance Estimates  
4.3% year-on-year in Q2 was somewhat stronger than expected.  This was 
supported by the trade-related sector, with exports benefiting from the deferral of 
tariff implementation and frontloading activity.
c.In H2 2025, we expect tariffs to hit production and exports with a lag, especially  
when the boost from frontloading dissipates. Forward-looking surveys of 
businesses indicate cautious business sentiments and are consistent with this 
softening outlook. 
d. Overall, Singapore's GDP growth is expected to be subdued over the rest of the 
year. 
In January this year, MAS began to unwind the restrictive monetary policy settings that 
had been in place between 2021 and 2024 to dampen the pass-through of high global 
inflation to Singapore and moderate overall price pressures in the economy. 
a.Singapore's Core Inflation eased to around 2% year-on-year in Q4 2024, and  
further to 0.6% year-on-year in the first 5 months of this year. 
In H2 2025, our expectation is that inflation remains subdued.
a.The negative global demand drags as well as the diversion of excess global  
goods production would weigh on Singapore's imported prices.
b.Domestic cost pressures would also moderate alongside slowing economic  
activity and the possible emergence of some slack in the domestic economy.
c.On the other hand, the lagged pass-through of previous administrative cost  
increases could firm inflation slightly.
Overall, core inflation should remain subdued with a resurgence of underlying price 
pressures unlikely.  We are alert to risks on both sides.  Disinflationary impulses could 
be stronger if the impact of tariffs on economic activity is more severe; while inflationary 
pressures could re-surface if geopolitical conflict or supply chain dislocations or 
disruptions escalate.
Amidst elevated uncertainty in the global environment, MAS will be continuously 
updating our assessment of economic conditions and the likely outlook for growth and 
inflation.3/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesAt the same time, fundamental shifts and changes to the global economy will 
begin to take shape in the months and years ahead.  Tariffs and other trade 
restrictive practices and geopolitical fragmentation will bring about deeper changes to 
trade, investment flows and supply chains.  Our economy and businesses will need to 
navigate these changes by strengthening connectivity and linkages, diversifying 
revenue streams and building more resilient business models.
MAS' mandate to secure medium-term price stability will provide an anchor of 
stability for the Singapore economy in these times of uncertainty and 
fundamental change .
Developments in Singapore's Financial Sector
Financial markets and financial stability
I will turn now to developments in the financial markets and financial stability.
While policy and macroeconomic uncertainty is high globally, financial markets for now 
appear to be pricing in a relatively benign outcome. Equity markets have recovered 
from the turbulence in April and rallied to new highs. Credit spreads are tight. Volatility 
indices are at low levels. Asian currencies have strengthened in spite of tariff threats.  
The disjoint between risks to the global economy and benign market pricing 
means that financial markets are vulnerable to sharp pullbacks and bouts of 
volatility if risk scenarios crystallise.  The triggers could include an escalation of 
trade conflict, geopolitical conflict and heightened concerns by investors over 
unsustainable policies.
MAS is vigilant to risks and developments in global markets transmitting to 
Singapore.  
a.The trade-weighted Singapore Dollar has appreciated within the policy band in  
recent months against a context of broad-based US Dollar depreciation.
i.The Singapore Dollar's appreciation against the US Dollar has been in line  
with that of major international and regional currencies.   
ii.The appreciation of the Singapore Dollar against the US Dollar has been  
accommodated within the policy band, while the extent of the Singapore Dollar 
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (S$NEER) appreciation has been tempered 
by the trade-weighted basket of currencies. 
b.Meanwhile, domestic interest rates have been falling across the yield curve  
broadly in tandem with trends in the region, reflecting capital inflows. 
c.Overall, domestic markets have continued to function normally.  MAS will  
continue to be vigilant to, and act to curb any excessive volatility in the trade-
weighted currency and domestic money markets. 4/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesMAS is also placing more emphasis on stress testing to assess domestic 
financial system stability.  This year, MAS has applied a more severe scenario, which 
adds a sharp tightening in global financial conditions, alongside heightened financial 
market volatility, a trade shock and persistent elevated levels of policy uncertainty. Our 
key findings are:
a.Singapore banks have strong capital buffers and healthy liquidity profiles, and  
should weather a global recession and tightened financial conditions, for an 
extended period.
b.Corporates and households are generally resilient as debt servicing capacities  
are healthy, and they have good financial buffers. 
c.Nonetheless, there are segments of businesses and households that are more  
vulnerable and should exercise vigilance.
i.In particular, smaller firms in the externally-oriented sector could face risks to  
revenue and liquidity from reduced orders, and should take steps early to 
provision for liquidity buffers and diversify their revenue sources, including by 
tapping on the new Business Adaptation Grant. 
ii.Similarly, households with less stable incomes should plan their finances  
prudently and avoid taking on large new loan commitments during this period 
of uncertainty. 
Financial Services growth outlook
I now turn to developments in the financial sector.
In 2024, the financial services sector grew by 6.8%, more than double the 3.1% 
growth in the preceding year. 
a.The sector's average growth rate for 2021-2024 is 4.7%, keeping us on track to  
meet the Industry Transformation Map (or ITM) 2025 target of 4% to 5% per annum 
over 2021-2025.  
b.We are also on track to meet the ITM 2025 target of 3,000-4,000 net jobs  
created per annum. The average annual net jobs created for 2021-2024 was 4,4001
, with more than 90% of these going to locals. 
Growth was broad-based.
a.Banking sector growth remained resilient, with total assets growing at 6.8%  
Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) over 2021-2024. 
b.The insurance industry also expanded, with total assets increasing by 3.6% in  
2024 over 2023, to S$456.4 billion. 
c.Singapore continues to grow as a leading FX hub in Asia, with the FX average  
daily traded volumes surpassing S$1.5 trillion in 2024.5/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesd.The corporate debt market registered strong growth in 2024, with total issuance  
increasing more than 30% from the previous year to exceed S$300 billion.
e.Assets under management (AUM) in Singapore grew 12.2% year-on-year to  
exceed S$6 trillion, driven by both Traditional and Alternative sectors. It marks the 2 
first time that Singapore's AUM exceeded S$6 trillion. 
f.Alongside the broader asset management industry, the wealth management  
sector also experienced strong growth. 
g. Singapore continues to be a trusted and attractive wealth management 
The recently announced centre underpinned by high standards of regulation.  
regulatory actions against 9 financial institutions (FIs) for anti-money laundering 
breaches reflect our expectation that FIs uphold sound and risk-proportionate AML
/CFT practices. 
h. We are working with FIs  Singapore continues to welcome legitimate wealth.  
in Singapore to improve their practices so that they are sound, effective and 
efficient.  Our financial eco-system will be tough on suspicious and illegitimate 
monies, but welcoming and efficient to legitimate wealth. This will provide a strong 
and sustainable basis for the continued growth of the wealth management sector.
Looking ahead, we do not expect financial sector growth to continue at the pace 
of the last few years.
Amidst prevailing global uncertainties, MAS will continue to strengthen the 
competitiveness and capabilities of our financial sector as well as the resilience and 
security of digital financial services. Let me provide an update on our efforts in 3 areas:
a.First, fostering responsible AI adoption in the financial sector.  
b.Second, supporting Asia's transition to a low-carbon economy. 
c.Third, enhancing the resilience and security of digital financial services. 
Fostering responsible AI adoption in the financial sector 
AI adoption in the financial services industry globally is expanding rapidly.  AI has been 
applied as internal productivity tools, to automate back-office processes and software 
development, augment customer relationship management and advisory services, and 
assist in risk management and screening of suspicious transactions.  AI will increasingly 
be a competitive differentiator between FIs and financial centres.
Our aim is for our FIs and workforce to be positioned well to adopt and use AI, so 
that they are competitive, here and internationally.  MAS is working on multiple 
fronts to strengthen the AI capabilities of Singapore's financial sector and our 
workforce. 
First, we are anchoring AI competencies of FIs in Singapore. 6/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesa.More than 30 FIs have established AI functions in Singapore to work on AI- 
related projects. Among them, several serve as Global AI Competency Centres. 
Beyond building specific use-cases to drive value creation, a number of these FIs 
are incubating and implementing AI solutions in Singapore before scaling 
deployment to other markets.
b.We welcome more FIs to build AI capabilities in Singapore and join the growing  
community of AI practitioners within our financial sector. 
Second, we are supporting FIs which are earlier in their AI adoption journey with 
resources to start and scale. On this front, MAS has established the Pathfinder 
programme, or PathFin.ai. 
a.This programme is a collaborative initiative with the industry, where FIs share  
with one another their knowledge and experiences in successfully implementing AI 
use-cases.
b.By curating a library of use-cases, industry-validated solutions and best practices  
among these FIs, the programme seeks to reduce the time and effort to search, 
select and effectively implement AI solutions.
c.The programme also partners with established training providers to provide skills  
training that is aligned with the AI solutions chosen by FIs.
d.Today, 20 FIs covering banking, insurance, capital markets and payments have  
been onboarded to the Pathfinder programme. We welcome more FIs to join the 
programme. 
Third, as FIs increase the scale and scope of AI adoption, they also need to step up 
governance and risk management practices for the responsible use of AI.  MAS is 
developing supervisory guidance to FIs, focusing on key risks associated with AI 
use.
a.There are key risks around model, data, technology, and third-party risks. Poor  
management of these risks can result in wrong or even harmful information used in 
internal decision-making or advice given to customers and investors.
b.Last year, MAS conducted a thematic review of AI use in key banks and found  
varying levels of maturity in AI risk management.  We published an information 
paper sharing our observations from the review and good practices on AI model 
risk management.  
c.To clarify our supervisory expectations and foster robust practices in the industry,  
we are developing a set of supervisory guidelines on AI risk management. This is 
intended to address the governance and controls around the development and 
deployment of AI in FIs, covering pertinent issues such as evaluation, testing and 
explainability. 7/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesi.For example, in our thematic review, we observed a range of practices on AI  
risk materiality assessment and how to evaluate and test AI during 
development. 
ii.Our supervisory guidelines will highlight key risk dimensions that should be  
covered during AI risk materiality assessments, and key areas to evaluate and 
test during AI development. 
d.In parallel, we are working through the MindForge consortium on an AI  
governance handbook that will serve as a companion and good practice guide for 
FIs implementing the upcoming supervisory guidelines.3
i.For example, it would discuss approaches for managing third-party AI risks  
that are highlighted in MAS' guidelines.
e.The consultation on MAS' supervisory guidelines and the MindForge handbook  
will be published towards the end of this year.  
Fourth, we will upskill the financial sector workforce so that they can do more 
with AI assistance.
a.This year, MAS and the Institute of Banking and Finance Singapore (IBF) are  
stepping up efforts to identify and prepare relevant courses to uplift the GenAI 
proficiencies of financial sector professionals. 
b.As shared by DPM Gan Kim Yong at the ABS Annual Dinner on 25 June 2025,  
IBF is collaborating with 9 FIs to pilot how AI can augment and transform 8 existing 
job roles. Insights from this pilot will help guide both the industry and IBF in 
planning for workforce transformation in the years ahead and to meet the upskilling 
and reskilling needs of the financial sector workforce. 
Through these 4 initiatives, we will support FIs and the workforce in the AI 
adoption journey so that AI solutions are developed and deployed safely and 
responsibly, and the workforce is provided with the skills to perform job roles 
transformed by AI.
Supporting Asia's transition to a low-carbon economy
I will now provide updates on our efforts in sustainable finance. 
Singapore, and MAS, take a long term view of staying the course on 
sustainability,  despite the current uncertainties and headwinds internationally in 
climate action.
We remain committed to support the region's transition to a low-carbon economy, and 
are well-placed to do so. The momentum for sustainable finance in Southeast Asia 
remains positive, with sustainable finance activity continuing to strengthen. Singapore is 8/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesASEAN's largest market for green, social, sustainable, and sustainability-linked (or 
GSSSL) bonds and loans, with such loans originated from Singapore in 2024 reaching 
a new high, at over S$48 billion. 
We continue to make good progress in the implementation of initiatives to support the 
financing of Asia's transition. 
a.First, through the Singapore-Asia Taxonomy (or SAT), MAS is encouraging the  
use of clear and credible definitions for green and transition finance. 
i.In the past twelve months, we have enhanced the interoperability of the SAT  
with the EU and China taxonomies through the Multi-Jurisdiction Common 
Ground Taxonomy, and published an information note on its adoption among 
local and foreign FIs and corporates. 
ii.The Singapore Sustainable Finance Association also provided guidance to  
FIs on structuring credible green and transition financing instruments aligned 
with the SAT. 
iii.I am glad that our three local banks have integrated the SAT in their  
sustainable financing frameworks, and major regional and global banks are 
also using the SAT as a key reference document to engage their clients in the 
region. 
b.Second, MAS is bringing together partners through the Financing Asia's  
Transition Partnership (or FAST-P) platform to de-risk investments and catalyse the 
flow of private capital for green and transition projects.
i.The FAST-P office has been set-up with a dedicated management team. This  
will facilitate the deployment of up to US$500 million of concessional capital 
from the Singapore Government into the three FAST-P partnerships, alongside 
capital from other partners. A partnership with British International Investment 
was just announced.
ii.The office will continue to work closely with asset managers, banks, and  
commercial and concessional investors, to promote innovative blended finance 
solutions for sustainable infrastructure in the region.
c.Third, MAS is working with industry partners through the Transition Credits  
Coalition (or TRACTION) to develop high integrity transition credits that can 
accelerate early retirement of coal and its replacement with clean energy. 
i.Building on its interim report which identified key attributes needed to support  
credible transition, TRACTION will publish its final report at COP30, covering 
other critical enablers to scale and build confidence in transition credits. 
ii.We welcome feedback from industry as we develop this work further.  
Enhancing resilience and security of digital financial services9/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesAs digital financial services are now pervasive and essential for consumers in 
daily transactions, ensuring the operational resilience of digital financial services 
is mission critical for FIs.  Any prolonged disruption not only brings significant 
inconvenience to customers but also risks undermining public trust and confidence in 
FIs. 
MAS expects FIs to uphold high levels of resilience and availability for the key 
services they provide, and be able to safely and swiftly recover services when a 
disruption occurs . To do this well, an FI has to apply the standards for disruption and 
recovery to services and not just systems. This will require the FI to plan for resilience 
and recovery across multiple systems to ensure service continuity. 
MAS is giving particular focus this year to the resilience of retail payments 
services. 
a.MAS has been in discussion with NETS Group and the banks over the past year  
andthey will soon launch stand-in capabilities for NETS electronic point-of- 
This allows customers to continue to make contactless payments sales systems.  
at merchant point-of-sale terminals, subject to a transaction limit, when a 
participating bank's system is disrupted.
b.We will next work with FIs to develop similar solutions for QR code payments  
which have been gaining traction as a mode of payment. 
The financial sector must also start taking steps to build resilience against future 
threats. The cyber risks arising from quantum computing is one such area. While 
quantum computing is currently not at a mature stage, the technology is developing 
rapidly and could eventually render current encryption techniques obsolete, putting at 
risk sensitive customer data and financial transactions.
It is not too early to act now.  In anticipation of the future threat posed by 
quantum-powered decryption, MAS has conducted trials to study the viability of 
quantum-safe solutions for adoption in financial services.
a.In November 2024, MAS and Banque de France announced the completion of a  
milestone experiment using Post-Quantum Cryptography to secure international 
electronic communications. 
b. Today, I am pleased to announce the successful completion of our 
conducted in collaboration with a Quantum Key Distribution (or QKD) sandbox,  
number of banks and technology partners.
i.This sandbox trialled QKD for securing sensitive financial communications.  
We will soon be publishing a technical report detailing the results and 
takeaways. The report will also highlight challenges for future work. We are 
confident that further work by the industry can address these challenges and 
enable wider adoption of QKD in time to come. 
MAS will continue to engage FIs to prepare for a quantum-safe transition.  10/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesa.MAS published an advisory in February 2024 highlighting measures FIs should  
consider in their quantum transition efforts. 
b.MAS will start to engage FIs to prepare a roadmap towards quantum-safe  
transition, as a full transition is complex and will take time.  We will review how FIs 
manage their cryptographic inventory and identify critical assets to be prioritised for 
quantum-safe migration.
Let me now touch on scams.
MAS continues to work with banks and payment service providers to further 
strengthen our defences against scams.
a.Over the past year, banks have phased out SMS one-time passwords for digital  
token user account logins and authentication of card transactions.  This makes it 
harder for scammers to fraudulently access customer accounts or validate 
unauthorised transactions.  
b.Some major retail banks have also implemented pre-transaction warnings for  
large value transfers made via digital banking. This offers a cognitive break for 
individuals who may be victims of a scam, before they proceed with the transfer. 
MAS continues to work with the remaining banks to implement this.
We have also seen growing take-up of measures such as Money Lock to 
safeguard bank customers' monies. 
a.By preventing digital transfers of locked funds, Money Lock limits the potential  
losses should a customer's digital banking access be compromised. 
b.As of 31 May 2025, at least 350,000 customers have signed up to use Money  
Lock and set aside close to S$28 billion of savings, more than triple the numbers 
reported in our last annual report.  
c.This is encouraging and we hope more customers will take advantage of this  
service. 
Despite the progress that we have made, scams remain a concern. 
a.Today, scams involving self-effected transfers account for the largest proportion  
of scam losses. 
b.Many such cases are investment scams or government official impersonation  
scams, where victims are deceived into thinking they are transferring money for 
legitimate investment opportunities or following the instructions of government 
officials.
c.Worryingly, these scams continue to proliferate and increase in sophistication. 
To combat evolving scam typologies, we need to do better collectively as a society to 
combat all types of scams. 11/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesVigilance by each of us as consumers remains an important first line of defence.  We 
should be sceptical of requests to transfer money, take time to verify their legitimacy, 
and promptly report suspected scams to our banks and the authorities.
Banks will play their part and implement stronger safeguards to disrupt scam 
transactions.
The first set of safeguards relates to transaction surveillance and cooling-off 
periods. 
a.Under the Shared Responsibility Framework, banks have implemented real-time  
fraud surveillance to detect rapid drainage of material sums from customer 
accounts. This came into effect on 16 June 2025. 
b.Customers can expect some delays in their payment transactions as banks may  
perform additional checks.  
c.Banks will also progressively introduce cooling-off periods for high-risk activities,  
such as increasing transaction limits or changing contact details. This gives 
individuals who may be victims of scams an opportunity to re-assess their actions 
and mitigate financial losses. 
We are also looking to further strengthen the user authentication toolkit to 
defend against phishing. 
a.MAS is working with banks to enable the use of a FIDO-compliant hardware  
token (or FHT) for higher risk internet banking payments and transfers.
b.A FHT needs to be plugged in to the device that an individual uses to approve a  
transaction. Doing so makes it difficult for scammers to remotely make 
unauthorised transactions.
c.Consumer engagements are being conducted to identify customer pain-points in  
the adoption journey and how the transition can be made smoother. More details 
will be announced when ready.
Each of these measures by MAS and the banking industry to fight scams will introduce 
more frictions and delays for users of financial services. While the industry will do its 
best to minimise the inconvenience and give time for customers to get used to the new 
measures,  as a society we will have to make the choice for more security and less 
convenience.  
MAS Financial Results for FY2024/25
I now turn to MAS' financial results.
For the financial year ended 31 March 2025, MAS recorded a net profit of S$19.7 
billion. This comprised:
a.investment gains of S$31.4 billion, 12/12 BIS - Central bankers' speechesb.partially offset by a negative currency translation effect of S$3.4 billion, and  
c.net cost from MAS' money market operations to manage banking system liquidity  
and other expenses of S$8.3 billion.
Global markets performed well during the financial year.  All asset classes across 
bonds and equities, developed and emerging markets posted healthy returns. There is 
year to year volatility in investment gains and over the past 10 financial years, it was, on 
average, S$14.8 billion.
The negative currency translation effects of S$3.4 billion were due mainly to the 
Currency translation strengthening of the Singapore Dollar against the US Dollar.  
effects arise when MAS' Official Foreign Reserves (or OFR), held in foreign currencies, 
are reported in Singapore Dollars. Such effects do not affect MAS' ability to conduct 
monetary policy or support financial stability. The OFR are meant to be used in foreign 
currency, to support the Singapore Dollar in times of currency weakness, or to provide 
US Dollar funding to the banking system during times of financial stress.
Like many central banks, MAS incurs interest expense from money market 
operations (or MMO) to mop up excess liquidity in the banking system.  The cost 
of MMO is a product of the volume of MMO and the interest rate which eased slightly 
over the year. Income from the Reserves Management Government Securities (or 
RMGS) held by MAS partially offset some of these interest expense. 
While MAS maintains a globally diversified OFR portfolio, given ongoing uncertainties 
and risks in the global economy and financial markets, our investment performance and 
net profit may be impacted in the coming years. 
Conclusion
That concludes my remarks and I thank you for your attention. 
 Excludes jobs in holding companies.1
 Alternative managers include private equity, venture capital, hedge fund, real estate 2
and REIT managers.
 The Project MindForge consortium comprises over 30 financial industry participants 3
including banks, insurers, asset managers and technology partners coming together to 
identify the opportunities and risks of Gen AI in the financial sector.