1/2 BIS - Central bankers' speechesMichelle W Bowman: Welcoming remarks - "Unleashing a financially 
inclusive future"
Welcoming remarks (via prerecorded video) by Ms Michelle W Bowman, Vice Chair for 
Supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, at "Unleashing 
a financially inclusive future", the second annual financial inclusion conference, hosted 
by the Federal Reserve Board, Washington DC, 15 July 2025.
* * *
Good morning. I'm very pleased to welcome you to the second annual Financial 
Inclusion Conference hosted by the Federal Reserve Board. Last year, at our 1 
inaugural event, I underscored that financial inclusion is essential for creating an 
economy that works for everyone, with innovation in the financial sector playing an 
important role.2
This year's conference builds upon increased engagement across both the public and 
private sectors, with a collective effort to leverage technology to broaden financial 
service access and improve the financial well-being of consumers and small 
businesses. The Federal Reserve will continue to play an important role in these efforts 
through its research, community engagement, and regulatory approach. This work 
supports our ability to understand and communicate the state of financial inclusion, how 
banks support access to affordable financial services, and the role that our policies and 
practices play in promoting inclusion.
Progress to Date
Banks of all sizes are working to improve access to financial services for all Americans. 
As I've noted in the past, the U.S. banking system is well-positioned to bring consumers 
and small businesses into the financial mainstream by providing access to safe, fair, 
and responsive financial products and services. These efforts greatly benefit from our 3 
continued focus on broader access and innovation, including understanding how our 
supervisory and regulatory framework either supports or impairs a bank's ability to 
provide affordable financial services that are consistent with safety and soundness.
Innovation comes in many forms. One example is through banks' use of alternative 
data, which can enable banks to provide services like affordable small-dollar loans or to 
provide access to credit invisibles who may not have access to loans and other financial 
services from traditional lenders. This growing area of focus also helps align financial 4 
service offerings with a customer's financial goals.
A well-functioning financial system provides a foundation for strong consumer financial 
health. To further this, the federal banking agencies recently published a request for 
information on check and payments fraud to help address the impact of this growing 
problem on banks and their customers. I am committed to working together with a wide 
range of state and federal partners, including law enforcement, to address this issue.5
A More Financially Inclusive Future2/2 BIS - Central bankers' speechesAlthough there has been significant progress in providing access to financial services, 
there is more work left to be done. We know that financial institutions, both small and 
large, are working to build innovative approaches to meet their customers' needs while 
maintaining the safety and soundness of the banking system.
Today's Conference
The theme of this year's conference is "Unleashing a Financially Inclusive Future." 
Today, we will hear from a number of experts that will help to explore what the future 
might hold for financial inclusion. Our next presenter, Jo Ann Barefoot from the Alliance 
for Innovative Regulation, will discuss the role of banking industry innovation and 
policies in support of financial inclusion. Later in the day we will hear from three panels 
focused on topics including evolving products and practices, the role of mission-driven 
organizations, and how cross-border payment innovations can facilitate the movement 
of money around the world.
I would like to thank you all for joining us today and I will turn it over to Art Lindo, 
Deputy Director and Head of Policy in the Board's Division of Supervision & Regulation, 
to introduce Jo Ann Barefoot.
Thank you for the opportunity to join you virtually today, and for your ongoing 
commitment to support a financially inclusive future.
1 The views expressed here are my own and are not necessarily those of my 
colleagues on the Federal Reserve Board or the Federal Open Market Committee.
2 See Michelle W. Bowman, " ," speech Promoting an Inclusive Financial System (PDF)
delivered at Financial Inclusion Practices and Innovations Conference at the Federal 
Reserve Board of Governors, Washington, D.C., July 9, 2025.
3 Bowman, "Promoting an Inclusive Financial System."  
4 For more details on regulations related to alternative data use in credit underwriting 
and small-dollar lending, see Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, "
," CA letter Interagency Statement on the Use of Alternative Data in Credit Underwriting
19-11 (December 12, 2019), and Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, "
," SR letter Interagency Lending Principles for Making Responsible Small-Dollar Loans
20-14/CA 20-8 (May 20, 2020).
5 See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, " Federal Bank Regulatory 
," press release, June Agencies Seek Comment to Address Payments and Check Fraud
16, 2025.  