For release on delivery  
9:15 a.m. EDT  
July 17, 2025  
 
 
      
A View of the Housing Market and U.S. Economic Outlook  
   
Remarks by  
 
Adriana D. Kugler  
 
Member  
 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System  
 
at the 
 
Housing Partnership Network Symposium  
 
Washington, D.C.  
       
July 17, 2025 
  
Thank you, Robin.  And t hank you for the opportunity to speak with you today on 
the important topic of housing and how housing fits in with the broader economy.1 
First, I want to step back and say that housing—our homes —has a central role in 
our lives beyond what statistical reports  capture.   Housing matters greatly for our welfare 
because shelter is a basic human necessity.  Our homes—be it city apartments, 
farmhouses passed through generations, or  suburban dwellings —are among  the most 
significant  places in our lives.  In terms  of household financ es, housing is  an important 
source of wealth for many  American families .  Housing also supports  access to  good 
jobs, bec ause the jobs people  can take depend on where they live and how far they  need 
to commute . 
In addition, the housing sector matters a great deal to the economy as a whole , 
and it is an important channel through which monetary policy is transmitted .  That is why 
I study it closely as a me mber of the  Federal Open Market Committee  (FOMC) .  From 
the perspective of the labor market, many workers have ties to housing- related  sectors , 
including construction, real estate, and the mortgage finance industry.  And because 
housing is a large fraction of household wealth , the housing market influences  consumer 
spending.  From the price -stability perspective, shelter has a large weight in measures of 
inflation.  Specifically, shelter is currently 16 percent of the expenditures in the basket 
used to calculate the personal  consumption expenditures  (PCE)  price index, which is the 
FOMC’s  preferred inflation measure.2   
 
1 The views expressed here are my own and are not necessarily those of my colleagues on the Federal 
Reserve Board or the Federal Open Market Committee . 
2 Shelter has an even larger weight in the consumer price index —it is 35 percent for the index including all 
urban consumers.  
 - 2 - 
Today I will discuss several aspects of housing affordability in the U .S., a topic 
that I know is  important to many of you, as it is to me .  When studying affordability,  it is 
important to distinguish between the cost  of shelter , by which I mean the cost of 
occupying a home, and the cost s of purchasing and owning a home.  I will discuss each 
of these  in turn, with the common theme being that both are elevated from a historical 
perspective.  Next , I will discuss some supply and demand factors that explain how we 
got to this point and offer some thoughts  on how these influences might evolve .  Finally, 
I will discuss my overall outlook of the U.S. economy and its implications for monetary 
policy.  
Cost of Shelter  
I will start with a  discuss ion of  the cost of shelter, which is not only needed for 
survival, but is also a large portion of household budge ts.  Because of this,  increases in 
shelter prices leave less for families to spend otherwise.  It is common to measure the 
price of shelter with rents because rent reflects the price of occupying a home.  Rents  
surged early in the pandemic recovery, rising 8.3  percent over the 12 months ending in 
December 2022.  This year , rent growth eased to 3.8 percent over the 12 months ending 
in May .3  The recent increase in multifamily construction has contributed to this 
moderation.  For lower -end properties , we have not seen as much of a cooling in rental 
inflation , in part because new construction has been  aimed at the high end of the market.   
 
3 The figures cited are calculated from the rent of tenant -occupied housing component of the PCE price 
index.  
 - 3 - 
Even with the slowdown in rent growth, rents continue to rise faster than overall 
inflation, as was the case before the pandemic.4 
Nevertheless, rents have not risen at a faster pace than household incomes.   The 
constant -quality cost of a rental unit relative to  the median family income is currently no 
higher than its average from 2014 to 2019.  The share of renters spending more than 30 
percent of their income on rent was about the same in 2023 as it was in 2019, about 40 
percent in both years.  Of course, this fraction is high, indicating that rental housing is a large expense for many families .  This ratio is significantly  higher for certain groups.  In 
2023, 43 percent of Hispanic households spent more than 30 percent of their income on 
rent, while  47 percent of Black households spent that share.  For h ouseholds whose head 
did not attend college , the figure is 4 6 percent .
5 
Cost of Homeownership  
While shelter is a necessity, homeownership is an opportunity  because it is a 
pathway for families to build wealth.  It also provides a greater sense of stability because owner -occupants do not have to worry about a landlord deciding not to renew the lease.  
Like renting,  the costs of purchasing and owning a house are  elevated . 
The cost of homeownership is related to several factors.  One is the cost of 
purchasing a home.  Like  rent, house  price growth has slowed from the fast pace seen a 
few years ago, and t his slowing has been more pronounced for higher -priced homes.  
Zillow’s index for high -value homes increased 1 percent per year over the past three 
 
4 From 2015 to 2019, the rent component of the PCE price index rose 3. 7 percent per year, more than 
double the rate of increase of the PCE price index excluding rent and owner -occupied shelter , 1.2 percent 
per year.  
5 Calculations are based on household- level data from the 2023 American Community Survey provided by 
IPUMS ; see Steven Ruggles, Sarah Flood, Matthew Sobek, Daniel Backman, Grace Cooper, Julia A. 
Rivera Drew, Stephanie Richards, Renae Rodgers, Jonathan Schroeder, and Kari C.W. Williams  (2025),  
IPUMS USA , version 16.0 [dataset] (Minneapolis, Minn. :  IPUMS ), https://doi.org/10.18128/D010.V16.0 . 
 - 4 - 
years, whereas it increased 3 percent per year for low -value homes.6  Despite this 
slowdown, the level of prices is quite high, even relative to income .  The ratio of house 
prices to median family income is about 20 percent higher than its average from 2014 to 
2019. 
In addition, the costs associated with owning a home are also elevated .  Mortgage 
rates have ranged between 6 and 7.5 percent in the past several years.  Property taxes 
have risen along with home values.  Homeowners insurance premiums have increased  as 
insur ers seek  to offset expenditures tied to recent natural disasters  and the rising cost of 
replacing structures .  Federal Reserve Board staff research shows that , factoring in high 
house prices, mortgage rates, property taxes , and homeowners’ insurance, the  costs of 
owning a home relative to median income in 2023 were at the highest level seen since 
1980.7 
Given these costs, it is no surprise that some families cannot afford a home .  
Board staff research shows that increases in mortgage rates reduce purchases by lower -
income borrowers, especially low -income first- time homebuyers.8  And , indeed, t he 
homeownership rate of heads of households younger than 45 decreased from 2022 to 2024.  This decline is  a partial reversal of changes seen in the pr evious  few years when a 
combination of very low interest rates and fiscal support caused ownership rates to rise.  Yet, o n net, the ownership rate for several groups remains above levels recorded before 
 
6 This reference  reflects data through May.  Zillow’s high-value index reflects value for homes within the 
65th to 95th percentile range for a given region , and the low -value index reflects value for homes within the 
5th to 35th percentile range for a given region .  See Zillow Research (2025), “ Housing Data ,” webpage, 
https://www.zillow.com/research/data . 
7 See Raven Molloy  (2025), comment on “America’ s Housing Supply Problem: The Closing of the 
Suburban Frontier? ” by Edward Glaeser and Joseph Gyourko, paper presented at the Brookings Papers on 
Economic Activity  Conference, held at the Brookings Institution, Washington, March 28 . 
8 See Daniel Ringo  (2024),  “Monetary Policy and Home Buying Inequality ,” Review of Economics and 
Statistics  (March ), pp. 1–46. 
 - 5 - 
the pandemic.  In 2024, homeownership rates for household heads age d 35 to 44 were  
62 percent, 2 percentage points above their  2019 level.  The ownership rates for Black 
households were  4 percentage points higher, and the rate for Hispanic households was 
1.5 percentage points higher.9 
Demand Factors  
 The relative affordability of housing is the outcome of the forces of supply and 
demand.  Let me first focus on the long -run trends on the demand side, where household 
growth—that is, the change in the number of households over time —plays an important 
role.  Household growth is a function of population growth and household size .  In the 10 
years before  the pandemic , the U.S. population rose slightly less than  1 percent a  year .  
Immediately following the pandemic , population grew at a faster rate, reflectin g a higher 
volume of immigration.   That trend has since reversed .  Academic research examining 
immigration flows find s that rent growth increases in the short run after a  wave  of 
immigration, but these rent increases may not persist if the housing supply expands  over 
time to meet the increase in housing demand.10  In fact, a  study found that increases in 
immigration do lead to more residential construction.11  In terms of the whole population, 
the Census Bureau projects that population growth will ease over the next 10 years but 
 
9 The homeownership statistics are fro m the Housing Vacancy Survey;  see U.S. Census Bureau (2025), 
“Housing Vacancies and Homeownership,” webpage, https://www.census.gov/housing/hvs/index.html . 
10 See Albert Saiz (2003), “Room in the Kitchen for the Melting Pot:  Immigration and Rental Prices,” 
Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 85 (August ), pp. 502– 21; Albert Saiz (2007), “Immigration and 
Housing Rents in American Cities,” Journal of Urban Economics, vol. 61 (March), pp.  345– 71; Abeba 
Mussa, Uwaoma G. Nwaogu, and Susan Pozo (2017), “Immigration and Housing:  A Spatial Econometric 
Analysis,” Journal of Housing Economics, vol. 35 (March), pp. 13–25; Umut Unal, Bernd Hayo, and Isil 
Erol (2024), “The Effect of Immigration on Housing Prices:  Evidence from 382 German Districts,” 
Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics  (May), pp.  1–39; and Ibrahim Alhawarin, Ragui Assaad, 
and Ahmed Elsayed (2021), “Migration Shocks and Housing:  Short -Run Impact of the Syrian Refugee 
Crisis in Jordan,” Journal of Housing Economics, vol. 53 (September), 101761 .  
11 See Libertad Gonzalez and Francesc Ortega (2013 ), “Immigration and Housing Booms:  Evidence from 
Spain,” Journal of Regional Science,  vol. 53 (February), pp. 37– 59. 
 - 6 - 
remain  positive , based on mortality rates, birth rates, and the age distribution of the 
population.12  Thus, population growth should put less upward pressure on demand for 
housing going forward.  
Let me turn to some cyclical forces on the housing demand side, with some 
factors pushing demand in opposite directions.  A strong labor market for several years 
has fueled demand for both renting and owning housing, while t he recent increase in 
mortgage rates and other costs of ownership ha ve damped dema nd for owning.       
Supply Factors  
Turning to housing supply, it is no surprise to those in this room that it has been 
increasing at  too slow  of a rate relative to demand.  R esearch show s that growth of the 
housing stock has declined steadily since the 1960s and 1970s.  Specifically, it estimate s 
that if the housing stock had expanded at the same rate from 2000 to 2020 as it did from 
1980 to 2000, there would be 15 million more housing units in the U .S.13   
Research finds that local regulations are an important factor constraining the 
housing supply, leading to higher house prices .14  In response , some state and local 
governments have begun to enact policy changes aimed at relaxing these supply 
restrictions .  For example, in 2020 Minneapolis enacted a large- scale zoning reform that 
 
12 The Census Bureau makes a range of population growth projections under various assumptions about  
immigration.  This statement refers to its projections under its baseline immigration assumption and its 
low-immigration  assumption .  Under its high-immigration assumption, population growth would be about 
in line with that seen over the past decade.  
13 See Edward L. Glaeser and Joseph Gyourko (2025),  “America’s Housing Supply Problem:  The Closing 
of the Suburban Frontier? ” NBER Working Paper Series  33876  (Cambridge, Mass.:  National Bureau of 
Economic Research, May), https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w33876/w33876.pdf . 
14 For summaries on the literature, see Joseph Gyourko  and Raven Molloy  (2015),  “Regulation and 
Housing Supply ,” in Gilles Duranton, J. Vernon Henderson, and William C. Strange, eds., Handbook of 
Regional and Urban Economics , vol. 5  (Amsterdam:  North -Holland),  pp. 1289– 1337 ; and Nathaniel 
Baum -Snow and Gilles Duranton  (2025),  “Housing Supply and Housing Affordability ,” NBER Working 
Paper  Series 33694  (Cambridge, Mass.:   National Bureau of Economic Research , April), 
https://www.nber.org/papers/w33694.  
 - 7 - 
eliminated parking requirements  for new development, encouraged apartment 
development in commercial corridors, and permitted duplex and triplex construction on 
all residential lots . These zoning reforms may  have boosted construction in Minneapolis.  
Other states and cities have also implemented  policies  intended to increase the number of 
housing units, but it is still too early to tell whether these changes will meaningfully 
affect house prices or rents.  
Material and labor  costs  for home construction have increased about 25 percent in 
real terms since the mid -2000s .15  Recent policy changes at the national level  could 
further increase those costs.   Anecdot al reports, including those in the Beige Book, 
suggest that changes in immigration policy are starting to restrict the supply of construction workers .  Research has found that past declines in immigration have reduced 
residential construction while increasing housing prices.
16  In terms of tariff policy  
changes, to date there has been some  effect on homebuilder costs.  The National 
Association of Home Builders  estimates tariff policy , including tariffs on steel and 
aluminum, has increased the cost of new construction by about 3 percent  of the  average 
price of a new home , and additional  tariffs , such as the one proposed on imported lumber , 
could raise construction costs further.   
Another aspect of housing supply is the number of homes for sale.  Elevated 
interest rates have made it much less appealing for existing owners who have a mortgage 
with a low fixed rate to sell and purchase a different house, because doing so would 
require  them to take out a new mortgage at a much higher rate.  Therefore, the supply of 
 
15 See Glaeser and Gyourko, “ America ’s Housing Supply Problem ,” in note 13 . 
16 See Troup Howard , Mengqi  Wang , and Dayin Zhang (2024),  “Cracking Down, Pricing Up:  Housing 
Supply in the Wake of Mass Deportation,” working paper, October.  
 - 8 - 
existing homes for sale in the past few years has been much lower than normal .  Board 
staff research shows that this “rate lock -in” effect has boosted house prices in markets 
that were already tight in 2019, because the decrease in homes for sale was proportionally 
larger than the decrease in the number of potential buyers.17 
Considering  all these factors in concert, the housing market has gone through 
some pronounced swings over the p ast four years.  Looking through these ups and downs, 
growth in demand for shelter has continued to outpace supply, putting upward pressure on rents across a wide range of locations and types of families.  Although rent growth has not been faster than inco me growth, rental expenditures are still a large fraction of 
income for many households.  House prices have risen, too, and combined with elevated 
mortgage rates and increases in other ownership costs, the cost s of owning a home are 
high relative to Americans’ incomes.  
Looking forward, growth in housing demand may soften over the second half of 
this decade because of  a slowdown in population growth.  B ut even with this softening, it 
is not clear that growth in the housing supply will be large enough to meet demand.  Prospects for house prices and rents over the next few years also depend materially on the economic outlook, to which I will turn now. Economic Outlook  
I will start by saying that while m y discussion so far has focused on the housing 
market, I look at economic conditions across the entire economy and in every region of the country when making monetary policy decisions.  Thus , I pursue the monetary policy 
 
17 See Aditya Aladangady, Jacob Krimmel, and Tess  Scharlemann (202 4), “Locked In:  Mobility , Market 
Tightness, and Hous e Prices,” Finance and Economics Discussion Series  2024- 088 (Washington:  Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, November; rev. May 2025), 
https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/feds/locked- in-rate-hikes -housing -markets -and-mobility.htm . 
 - 9 - 
that I believe will achieve our dual -mandate goals of maximum employment and price 
stability for all Americans.  
Overall , I see the labor market as stable and resilient, and economic activity 
moderating some.  In contrast, I see  upward pressure on inflation from trade polic ies, and 
I expect additional price increases later in the year.   While I am monitoring policy 
developments  in many areas, I continue to see trade developments as the key drivers of 
the U.S. economic outlook.  
Starting with price stability,  based on data received this week , it is estimated that 
the headline  PCE price index rose 2.5 percent on a 12- month basis in June , a somewhat 
stronger gain than the 2. 3 percent recorded in May.  Core inflation , which exclude s 
volatile food and energy cost s and is a good guide for future inflation, came in at about 
2.8 percent  in June , also higher than in May .  Both headline and core inflation have 
shown no progress in the last six months.  While core services inflation decreased relative 
to the end of last year , core goods inflation has pushed up inflation recently. 
I see firmer core goods inflation as already partially reflecting the pass -through of 
increased tariffs , which has been shown  by research done at the Fed .18  In addition, CPI 
and PPI reports released in the past two days show that increases in core goods prices 
were more broad -based in the month of June. While many forecasters may have been 
expecting a sooner and sharper increase in overall inflation, there are many reasons to 
think that large r effects of tariffs are still coming .  First, b usinesses built up inventories 
ahead of anticipated tariff increases, giving them leeway to still sell goods at pre -tariffed 
 
18 See Rob bie Minton and Mariano Somale (2025),  “Detecting Tariff Effects on Consumer Prices in Real 
Time, ” FEDS Notes (Washington:  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, May 9) , 
https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/notes/feds -notes/detecting -tariff -effects -on-consumer -prices -in-
real-time-20250509.html.  
 - 10 - 
prices.   Second, given the many changes in implemented tariff polic ies, businesses may 
not yet be passing the higher tariffs to their selling prices because they are wait ing for 
greater clarity .  Third, businesses, especially larger ones, may also be waiting to capture 
market share from other s that  hike  prices sooner .  Fourth, the current environment of still-
elevated short -run inflation expectations  makes it  easier for workers to seek higher wages 
and business to charge higher prices , which could increa se the persistence of price hikes  
going forward.  Fifth, tariff rates could increase further, as seen in newly proposed 
reciprocal tariffs for several countries and the new tariffs on copper introduced last week, putting further upward pressure on prices.  
Other unforeseen shocks, such as geopolitical ones, may further push inflation 
upward soon.  Board staff research shows that increased geopolitical risk is associated with high inflation in the U.S., with effects peaking about two years after the geopolitical shock.
19  Renewed tensions in the Middle East , together with the possibility of an 
extension and escalation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine , are important geopolitical 
risks to monitor.  
Turning to the em ployment side of our mandate, I see a labor market that has been 
stable and resilient .  The June employment report showed that employers added  a robust  
147,000 jobs , boosted by jobs in the state and local government sector .  Private payroll 
employment increased by 74,000, showing some moderation relative to previous months.  Additionally, the  unemployment rate has stayed in a narrow and historically low range 
for more than a year.  L ayoff measures have remained subdued , and the ratio of job 
 
19 See Dario  Caldara, Sarah Conlisk, Matteo Iacoviello, and Maddie Penn  (2024),  “Do Geopolitical Risks 
Raise or Lower Inflation ?” working paper, April . 
 - 11 - 
vacancies to unemployed workers has largely been stable at a level that suggests demand 
and supply for labor are roughly balanced. Conclusion 
Considering the near -term outlook that I just outline d, I see that the U.S. economy 
has remained resilient, with labor markets appearing to be stable and close to full employment.  Inflation, meanwhile, remains above the FOMC’s 2 percent goal  and is 
facing upward pressure from implemented tariffs .  Moreover, I judge that inflation is 
likely to increase further as tariff effects build up  during the rest of the year. 
Given the stability in the employment side of our mandate, with the 
unemployment rate  still at historically low level s, elevated short -run inflation 
expectations , and goods inflation rising due to the upward pressure from tariffs,  I find it 
appropriate to hold our policy rate at  the current level for some time .  This still- restrictive  
policy stance is important to keep longer -run inflation expectations anchored.  Moving 
forward , I will make policy decisions based on incoming economic data , the evolving 
outlook, and my assessment of  risks  to both sides of our dual mandate . 
Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today.  
  