1/4 BIS - Central bankers' speechesRama Krishna Sithanen: Speech - Annual conference and meeting of 
the Community of African Banking Supervisors
Speech by Dr Rama Krishna Sithanen, Governor of the Bank of Mauritius, at the annual 
conference and meeting of the Community of African Banking Supervisors (CABS), 
Balaclava, 23 June 2025.
* * *
Second Deputy Governor of the Bank of Mauritius
Executive Secretary of the Association of African Central Banks
Chairperson of the Community of African Banking Supervisors
Delegates from AACB member central banks
Guest Speakers and Resource Persons
Members of the Press
Ladies and gentlemen
Good morning
It is a great pleasure for me to welcome you to Mauritius for the Annual Conference and 
Meeting of the Community of African Banking Supervisors (CABS). The presence of 
delegates from 30 AACB member central banks as well as representatives from 4 
international institutions is testimony to the importance that is attached to supervision 
on the continent. I am sure that the topics on the agenda will stimulate enriching 
discussions.
I have been closely associated to the financial sector of both Mauritius and Africa for 46 
years in different capacities, including as Minister of Finance for almost 10 years. The 
forum is appropriate for me to share a few insights as supervision requires much 
intuition and judgement apart from the conventional adherence to international best 
practices.    
Supervisors play a commendable role in the stability of the financial system by ensuring 
the safety and soundness of financial institutions and have much responsibility on their 
shoulders. Further, the law provides you with extensive powers to request for whatever 
information you may deem necessary in pursuing your mandate. However, power goes 
hand in hand with accountability. This leads me to the first kernel of my intervention, 
namely effective communication.
Ladies and gentlemen,
I am a fervent advocate of transparency within the parameters of the law. When 
communication is properly diffused, it gives credence to our reputation and eliminates 
the possibility of speculation. As a supervisor, I am aware that you may have to take 
difficult decisions on occasions. My advice will be not to procrastinate on matters as the 
cost of inaction could be even higher. But it should always be backed by substantive 
evidence supporting your conclusion and the recipient should be informed in a clear 
and concise manner.2/4 BIS - Central bankers' speechesMy next point will be risk-based supervision which has emerged as a priority for many 
supervisors, including the Bank of Mauritius in view of resources constraint, enhanced 
performance and operational efficiency. The Bank of Mauritius has recently finalised its 
Risk-Based Supervisory Framework. While the framework marks commendable 
progress in the assessment and classification of risk, regular reviews will, nevertheless, 
be required to ensure its continued relevance in the face of a dynamic supervisory 
environment. However, I would like to emphasise one specific area, namely licensing. 
You may have the best framework to monitor, assess and mitigate risk but it will 
ultimately be futile if the licensing is deficient. A rigorous process should be in place 
before the grant of a banking licence. Compromising on the licensing criteria could 
result in protracted and costly resolution of the entity, often at the expense of public 
funds and private depositors. 
Gone are the days when banks could be considered as regional or global in life but 
national in death. With economic integration and digitalisation of payment systems, 
financial systems have become intertwined. Failure of a bank in a country could have 
ripple effects on other countries, depending on the size of the bank and its systemic 
importance. It is, therefore, important for supervisors to have regular interaction through 
participation in supervisory colleges and otherwise for those banks which have 
expanded their footprints outside the home jurisdiction. I would even go one step further 
by suggesting that it should include simulation exercises on the possibility of the bank 
failing. A proactive approach should be adopted so that in the real situation, there is 
clarity on the steps to be followed.  
Ladies and gentlemen,
We should collectively chart out an ambitious pathway for Africa's banking sector as we 
cannot lag behind. Mauritius, which is the only IFC with an investment grade status on 
the continent has already taken necessary measures to strengthen the relevant 
frameworks. To that effect, our legislation, which dates back to 2004, needs a thorough 
overhaul. It will have to be morphed and adapted to cater for the latest developments. 
On this specific project, the Bank has received technical assistance from the IMF, and 
the relevant laws are in the process of being finalised. The authorities are also initiating 
the necessary procedures to request a Financial Sector Assessment Programme by the 
IMF and the World Bank. We have to be adaptive at a time when the financial services 
industry is going through sweeping changes.
Terms like digitalisation, FinTech, RegTech, Suptech and DLT are the buzzword these 
days. The Bank has an open door and open mind policy as far as innovation is 
concerned. However, the financial services provider should demonstrate that adequate 
systems are in place for risk management.
Ladies and gentlemen,
I value technology as a game changer in the delivery of banking and financial services. 
It will not only increase speed and improve efficiency but also result in cost savings. 
One of my first decisions since I took office has been the establishment of a National 
FinTech Committee. This Committee also comprises other stakeholders in the financial 
services industry and has been tasked with elaborating a strategic plan to position 
Mauritius as a regional fintech and blockchain hub.3/4 BIS - Central bankers' speechesWhile digitalisation can elevate the Mauritian financial sector to new heights, it also 
introduces novel risks such as cyber security. At the level of the Bank, we have 
established the Mauritius Financial Sector Cyber Committee, the MFSCC, to enhance 
the cyber resilience and operational resilience of the Mauritius Financial Sector. Its role 
includes collaboration among financial institutions and catalyzing joint initiatives to 
increase cyber resilience capabilities and awareness.
It is also opportune for me to talk about climate change in this gathering. We may be 
from countries with different specificities and topologies, but our priority should be the 
same – preservation of the environment and protection of biodiversity. Our health and 
future depend greatly on the health of the planet. The future will be bleak if we do not 
act decisively. We are already in a state of climate emergency and time is now of 
essence to reduce our carbon footprint. The solution is to reduce greenhouse gas 
emission and to speed up the replacement of fossil fuel by clean renewable energy. 
I will here make an appeal to all of you to place sustainability as a core priority. It is 
highly likely that investors will look at sustainable business practices before entrusting 
their funds in the different jurisdictions in Africa. At the level of the Bank, the greening of 
our financial system is in progress. Some of the initiatives include the issue of guideline 
on climate related and environment financial risk management including disclosure of 
climate change risks, and release of a guide for the issue of sustainable bonds. The 
Bank has also rolled out its climate change stress testing exercise to assess the 
resilience of the banking sector to climate events over the medium term.
At the Bank, we have kickstarted data initiatives as far back as 2021 and we have 
created a database of climate-related risk drivers since July 2023. Our future plans 
include the devising of a comprehensive data directory for metrics on climate-related 
risks and sustainable finance which will include past observations, forecasts as well as 
realized climate-related financial losses by sector. In my view, having appropriate 
metrics to measure risks and potential rewards from sustainable finance is a key 
enabler for operationalizing taxonomies. We are working in close collaboration with the 
European Union and Agence Française de Développement for upskilling our 
competency in climate change.
Ladies and gentlemen,
I am particularly worried about the repercussions of the geoeconomic fragmentation in 
currency markets and wider financial stability. International investors are becoming 
more risk-averse, delaying investment decisions and are showing an increased 
tendency towards 'friendshoring', that is they are investing mainly in regions that are 
strategically placed. For African jurisdictions, which are geographically and 
economically far from global consumer markets, there is the risk of reduced financial 
flows and increased currency volatility. Fighting a depreciating currency while ensuring 
ample foreign exchange liquidity in an open market has always been one of the 
toughest tasks for central banks. I hope that today's conference will cover how to adapt 
the supervisory landscape to the geoeconomics fragmentation.
Ladies and gentlemen,4/4 BIS - Central bankers' speechesI am convinced that the different themes will yield interesting and constructive 
discussions, and, above all, the CABS conference will identify solutions and insights 
that can be implemented by our member central banks. I am sure that our partners from 
the Bank for International Settlements and Making Finance Work for Africa will enrich 
the debate, by bringing perspectives from their own research and wide-ranging 
experience.
Let us continue to work together to build a stronger, more vibrant financial system for 
our continent.
On this note, I wish you all fruitful deliberations in today's event as well as in tomorrow's 
plenary session and a pleasant stay in Mauritius. I hope that you can spare some free 
time to visit our beautiful island.