1/6 BIS - Central bankers' speechesRajeshwar Rao: Catalysing sustainable and green infrastructure 
financing for achieving net zero
Inaugural address by Mr Rajeshwar Rao, Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank of 
India, at the Conference on Green Infrastructure Finance, in collaboration with the 
Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) India, at the College of 
Agriculture Banking, Reserve Bank of India, Pune, 3 July 20205.
* * *
Distinguished guests, participants, colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Let me at the outset thank the organisers for having me here to share my thoughts on 
this important topic. Climate risks and green infrastructure financing, as a catalyst for 
achieving net-zero emissions, has to move over time from the margins of policymaking 
to the heart of global and national agenda and occasions such as these should help in 
this endeavour.
Climate change is a phenomenon which we are seeing and living through on a daily 
basis. With each passing year, the extremes of weather patterns are becoming more 
intense. Whether it is extreme rainfall, droughts, heat waves or cyclones, changes and 
aberrations have become the norm. The incidents of formation of heat dome over USA 
or the monsoon rains hitting Mumbai before the scheduled onset reflect recent 
examples of the climate change. The probability of changing weather patterns is going 
to be more regular and its economic impact very severe in the times to come. A recent 
reporton economic cost of extreme weather events estimates that over a ten-year 1 
period from 2014 to 2023, economic cost associated with climate-related extreme 
weather events amounted to $2 trillion. Notably, the estimated cost over the last two 
years taken together i.e., 2022 and 2023, was around $451 billion. Moreover Climate-
induced disasters also disproportionately affect the poorest nations and communities.
The scale of the impact of events arising out of climate change therefore requires 
sizeable investments in technology and scale of finance to both build resilience and 
enable mitigation. As per OECD report , the investment required for green and 2
sustainable infrastructure is estimated at around USD 3 to USD 5 trillion per year until 
2050. This is not just a nominal allocation of capital resources - it would require a 
significant shift of financial flows, complemented with appropriate policies, and 
reorientation of institutional priorities. The question is no longer about if but how to 
finance this transformation, which must then be our collective resolve going forward. 
Financing sustainable and green infrastructure can no longer remain a peripheral 
concern; it has to now become central to achieving both global and national net-zero 
targets, and for fulfilling the commitments of the Paris Agreement. These aspects are 
important for climate risk mitigation and facilitating a just transition. While more than 
140 countries over the world have made commitments to net-zero targets-the real 
challenge lies in their achievement. Climate finance remains significantly off-track, 
fragmented, overly reliant on public funds and often inaccessible to the developing 
countries that need it most. So, the question before us is both urgent and clear: How do 
we catalyse sustainable and green infrastructure financing to deliver on the promise of 
net-zero? Let me share a few thoughts on this.2/6 BIS - Central bankers' speechesSustainable and Green Infrastructure – The need of the hour
For, the current period marked by climate related volatility, limited resources and 
widening inequality, sustainable and green infrastructure is likely to be a necessity. The 
infrastructure whether in the form of power plants, highways, apartments, commercial 
buildings, or fuel pipelines, must be taken as steppingstones towards achieving the goal 
of net-zero in carbon emissions and not emerge as barriers in achieving these targets. 
According to a World Bank study , every single dollar invested in climate-resilient 3
infrastructure can save up to four dollars in avoided losses. Green and Sustainable 
infrastructure not only improves the quality of life through cleaner air, accessible 
mobility, and more efficient public services, while remaining climate friendly, it also 
helps in reducing vulnerability and inequality, particularly in communities that are prone 
to climate risks. Creation of climate resilient infrastructure reduces disaster risks and 
prevents catastrophic losses from floods, cyclones, and heatwaves. It also reduces the 
volatility of losses that may occur on corporate balance sheets in the face of physical 
climate risks, thereby help in improving financial stability. While the arguments for 
climate resilient infrastructure are compelling, the hurdles are many. It has been 
estimated that less than 1.5% of total assets under management (AUM) of global 4 
investment funds are aligned with Paris goals. Green infrastructure pipelines in 
emerging markets remain underdeveloped and the climate finance gap which is 
estimated at over $2.5 trillion annually , is widening.5
Financing Sustainable and Green Infrastructure – Issues and 
Challenges
While discussing sustainable and green infrastructure, the first step is to establish a 
clear definition and reach a consensus on what qualifies as green infrastructure. The 
green taxonomy plays a critical role in this regard. The government has recently 
released the draft of the climate finance taxonomy for public consultation, which paves 
the way for much-needed uniform classification across the economy and financial 
system. The draft taxonomy lays down four essential criteria viz. avoidance of Green 
House Gas (GHG) emissions, reduction of GHG emissions intensity, adaptation 
solutions that reduce the risk of adverse impacts of climate change and research and 
development, for classification related to climate finance. But the key to enable 
sustainable and green infrastructure is technology. New technologies can lead to 
reduction in emission intensities, increase energy efficiency, provide alternate energy 
sources to help avoid GHG emissions, and build innovative solutions to drive adaptation 
and resilience towards mitigating the perils of climate change.
This dependence on technology is however both the enabler as well as the main 
constraint on the flow of finance. Let me elaborate a bit. Finance always follows the 
principle of risk and reward. Financial institutions adopt risk-based pricing for financial 
products, considering both the borrower's risk profile and the inherent risks associated 
with the proposal. The technologies underlying sustainable and green infrastructure are 
still evolving and are therefore less reliable regarding their future viability as compared 
to the traditional technologies, which are comparatively stable and have stood the test 
of time regarding cash flow generation. There may also be lack of technical expertise 
and capacity among the creditors in understanding these evolving technologies. Hence, 3/6 BIS - Central bankers' speechescompared to traditional technologies, there are higher perceived inherent risks related 
to sustainable and green infrastructure technologies which then get reflected in their 
risk pricing. Sustainable and green projects thus often face higher upfront costs 
including capex requirements. The perceived risks associated with sustainable and 
green infrastructure limit access to debt financing for early-stage technologies, 
highlighting the need for greater equity investment (First Loss Default Capital). Other 
constraints relate to longer payback periods creating asset-liability mismatches, 
information gaps, lack of robust assurance and verification functions, which limit 
understanding and appraisal of these technologies to prepare investment-grade 
infrastructure projects i.e., those with well-defined cash flows, clear governance, and 
measurable impact metrics.
Climate change risks directly impact the real economy, and the financial sector in turn 
gets impacted on account of its credit exposure to the real economy. For the financial 
sector to perform a comprehensive risk assessment, relevant information flow from the 
real economy i.e. corporate/institutional borrowers in a timely manner is important. 
Given that climate change and climate risks is likely to impact a business segment 
consisting largely of MSMEs, unorganised sectors and un-listed corporates, creating an 
awareness and understanding amongst these borrowers on climate change risks and 
obtaining the required information becomes important.
Understanding climate change is an elaborate process involving the use of complex 
models to analyse the weather and climate patterns to predict the changes. Along with 
historical data, projections of climate variables such as rainfall, and temperature, are 
also inputs for forward looking risk estimations. However, the financial system or 
financial analysts have limited exposure to climate science. At the same time climate 
scientists have limited understanding of financial modelling and risk estimations. This 
creates a gap between these two input streams and that challenges us in accurately 
estimating the risks associated with sustainable and green infrastructure finance. The 
availability of climate related data with proper understanding about its sources and 
methodology of its estimation is essential for financial analysts to aid their decision 
making.
Since sustainable and green infrastructure technologies contribute to the reduction or 
avoidance of greenhouse gas emission intensity, a critical consideration for financing 
entities is to address the risks of green washing. For a creditor to fund any project which 
is intended to achieve reductions in GHG emissions, there is a need to clearly 
understand how these projected reductions are being quantified. It would also require a 
robust and independent Monitoring, Reporting, and Verification (MRV) function. 
Standardised processes and databases to inform and quantify such benefits would be 
necessary to increase the funding avenues for such infrastructure projects.
There are several building blocks or ecosystem enablers which are required to be 
fostered and promoted to remove the bottlenecks surrounding sustainable and green 
infrastructure projects. Without innovative financial instruments to mitigate early-stage 
risks, lack of availability of avenues for blended finance, many projects lack the scale or 
bankability needed to attract private capital. These limitations are further exacerbated in 
case of emerging market economies as inadequate financial instruments, and 
fragmented institutional coordination are critical constraints that are further exacerbated 
by poor sovereign ratings which leads to further increase in risk premium particularly 4/6 BIS - Central bankers' speecheswhen trying to access global funds. Global funding, where available, is predominantly 
denominated in foreign currencies, exposing borrowers to exchange rate risks and 
consequently increasing the cost of financing - despite their need to access low-cost 
funds. Moreover, globally climate finance availability is spread across several funds 
which have different application procedures, eligibility criteria, and reporting standards, 
which makes it onerous and time consuming for ensuring flow of such funding. These 
factors lead to institutional paradox with capital seeking sustainability, while sustainable 
assets seeking capital are unable to scale up and access these funds.
Catalysing the finance to Sustainable and Green infrastructure
Given the issues and challenges, our focus should be on identifying effective ways to 
mobilise the financing required to transform our infrastructure landscape toward green 
and sustainable development. Let me float a few ideas for you to ponder on. To unlock 
the required flows into green and sustainable infrastructure, we need a holistic 
reconfiguration of the financial ecosystem - one that rewires risk, institutionalises 
sustainability, and aligns incentives. We need to follow a building block approach 
whereby the ecosystem enablers are first put in place, thereafter harmonised and made 
consistent across all the sectors. We could categorise these enablers in two categories 
as endogenous and exogenous enablers. The endogenous enablers refer to the 
requirements of information flow, data gap bridging, MRV requirements, and building up 
of technical expertise. They can then act as the lynchpin between the availability and 
requirement of credit flow and cover the entire ecosystem right from the appraisal to 
disbursement and monitoring of finance related to sustainable and green infrastructure 
projects. These enablers will prepare the financial system to cater to the financing 
needs and facilitate the flow of funds with greater certainty.
The exogenous enablers would involve mechanisms that can be built to cater to the 
innate risks associated with green and sustainable infrastructure, which is requirement 
of risk capital, first loss default capital, concessional funding, quantum of funding, global 
funding, public and private capital mobilisation. Blended finance, which combines 
concessional public finance with private capital, is essential for bridging the bankability 
gap of green and sustainable infrastructure. There is a need for an adequate mix of 
public and private funding where the public funds crowds in the private funds through 
appropriate incentive structure. Specific mechanisms need to be enabled wherein 
global funds scale their mandates from project-level support to market-shaping 
interventions, also targeting underdeveloped sectors like adaptation infrastructure, and 
nature-based solutions. There is also requirement for Multilateral Development Banks 
(MDBs), Development Financial Institutions (DFIs), National Development Banks 
(NDBs) and Vertical Climate and Environmental Funds (VCEFs) to harmonise approach 
and operations and enable joint funding to enable shift from being direct lenders to 
catalytic partners and bring in economies of scale in sustainable and green 
infrastructure projects financing. Instruments like first loss guarantees, and 
subordinated debt, which can de-risk early-stage investments and crowd in institutional 
capital are also required.
Scalability of finance towards any cause comes either from policy nudges or market 
mechanisms that adequately incentivises risk taking. Once the endogenous enablers 
are in place, supported by exogenous enablers, innovative financial instruments such 
as sustainability linked loans, transition finance instruments, green debt securities etc., 5/6 BIS - Central bankers' speechescan get the required traction for enabling the flow of finance. Digital solutions are 
changing the way traditional finance works and that innovation needs to be channelised 
to the cause of sustainable and green infrastructure. Digital tools to automate MRV 
requirements, and data and information flows, can bring down compliance costs 
substantially. I would request all the tech enthusiasts to innovate and bring in solutions 
in this regard. To foster tech-based innovation in finance, RBI has instituted a regulatory 
sandbox wherein innovative solutions can be tested to provide market wide scalable 
solutions. RBI has also allowed'Theme Neutral' applications as part of the 'On Tap'   
facility under the regulatory sandbox under which application containing any technology 
/ theme can be made under various topics including sustainable finance and climate 
risk mitigation. Tokenization may soon enable fractional investment in infrastructure, 
opening new liquidity channels and investor bases. This approach needs to be explored 
for sustainable and green infrastructure. Fintech, blockchain, and AI have the power to 
streamline project verification, improve traceability, and democratise access to green 
and sustainable finance. We must capitalise on these efforts to establish an 
infrastructure pipeline of sustainable and green projects, a repository of vetted, 
investment-ready projects across sectors and regions. We must also empower local 
governments, indigenous communities, and civil society to lead climate infrastructure 
efforts. This may include decentralised renewable energy systems, sustainable land 
use practices, and community-based adaptation projects.
No country can achieve net-zero in isolation. Climate change is the quintessential 
global challenge and so too our response. There is a requirement of enhanced global 
cooperation in this regard which must also extend to technology transfer, R&D funding, 
and skills development to enable development of technical expertise to identify, design, 
and structure bankable sustainable and green infrastructure projects. The focus needs 
to shift from project-based finance to overall market development with policy reforms, 
development of a project pipeline, and consistent regulatory frameworks, creating 
systemic conditions for fostering sustainable and green infrastructure finance. The 
international financial architecture also needs to be reoriented toward sustainability. The 
de-risking of sustainable and green infrastructure can work best when national, local, 
and multilateral institutions co-invest, signalling policy credibility and technical 
robustness. MDBs and global climate funds may need to revisit their governance 
structure to reflect the voice of recipient countries, particularly the global south and not 
just donor countries. Innovative financial instruments such as debt-for-climate swaps 
and climate-resilient debt clauses must also be scaled up to create fiscal space for 
green investments. We all need to work towards the creation of a reformed, 
empowered, and climate-aligned multilateral financial system.
Conclusion – Financial Leadership - Call to Action
The transition to net-zero is not just about finance, but also about knowledge, trust, and 
solidarity. We are at the crossroads or in climate terms nearing a tipping point. This is a 
moment not only for climate policy, but for the financial leadership to act together. A 
sustainable and green infrastructure is the best legacy we can pass on to the future 
generations. As finance professionals and leaders, we need to act in unison to foster 
endogenous and exogenous enablers and build a robust ecosystem to scale climate 
finance to catalyse green and sustainable infrastructure in a prudent manner. We need 
to align our mandates and approaches with the country's net-zero pathways, innovate 
and strategise and collaborate globally, even as we may act locally. The Reserve Bank 6/6 BIS - Central bankers' speechesof India has been proactive in its resolve to facilitate creation of a robust ecosystem 
wherein the assessment and mitigation of climate change risks are fostered and its 
impact on the economy and financial system is curtailed. In this context, we have 
followed a building block approach, focused on wide stakeholder consultation, capacity 
development, channelising flow of credit towards green finance, efforts to bridge 
limitations such as climate data gaps and modelling challenges, and building a 
conducive regulatory framework for risk assessment balancing compliance and conduct.
We need bold and urgent action to finance the future requirements. There is a need to 
catalyse the capital that helps to build the world we need. Sustainable and green 
infrastructure is the foundation of climate action, economic resilience, and social justice. 
It is a significant lever for us to achieve net-zero targets, protect our communities, and 
create a more equitable world. The future has been built and will continue to be built, 
one way or another. The question is: will it be sustainable? And what can we do to 
ensure it?
Let me leave you with these thoughts and wish you all successful deliberations and 
fruitful outcomes during these meetings.
Thank you.
Inaugural Address delivered by Shri M Rajeshwar Rao, Deputy Governor, Reserve 
Bank of India at the Conference on Green Infrastructure Finance on July 03 at College 
of Agriculture Banking, RBI, Pune in Collaboration with Swiss Agency for Development 
and Cooperation (SDC) India. Inputs provided by Sunil TS Nair and Saket Kumar are 
gratefully acknowledged.
1 https://iccwbo.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/3/2024/11/2024-ICC-Oxera-The-
economic-cost-of-extreme-weather-events.pdf
2 https://www.oecd.org/en/publications/financing-climate-futures_9789264308114-en
/full-report.html
3 https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2019/06/19/42-trillion-can-be-
saved-by-investing-in-more-resilient-infrastructure-new-world-bank-report-finds#:~:
text=WASHINGTON%2C%20June%2019%2C%202019%20%E2%80%93,Reduction%
. 20and%20Recovery%20(GFDRR)
4 https://clarity.ai/research-and-insights/climate/only-1-5-of-global-investment-funds-are-
aligned-with-a-1-5oc-scenario-and-none-are-aligned-when-scope-3-is-considered/
5 https://www.un.org/en/climatechange/raising-ambition/climate-finance